
        README for ferm

        Auke Kok <auke.kok@planet.nl>


Contents:

	- Introduction to ferm
	- Installing ferm
	- Uninstalling ferm
	- Basic use of ferm
	- Getting a firewall working with ferm on your system
	- Package contents


Introduction to ferm

	Ferm is a tool to maintain and setup complicated firewall
	rules. It allows to reduce the tedious task of carefully inserting
	rules and chains by a large factor, thus enabling the firewall
	administrator to spend more time on developing good rules
	then the proper implementation of the rule.

	Ferm is a simple perl program, so it's lightweight, does
	not require any compiling or building, and it's construct
	can be adapted and modified quickly, so new features should
	be easy to adopt. The fact that it's perl-based makes it
	more trustworthy as well.

	Ferm supports ipchains firewalls, ipfwadm rules and
	iptables firewalls. Changing to another system will be
	very easy, and ferm will help in the process.


Installing ferm

	# make install

	The package does not need to be compiled, just make sure
	you have perl (which is present in any base linux system)
	and either ipchains, ipfwadm or iptables, and the according
	firewall enabled kernel installed.

	Run the make install install script as root to install the
	package in it's best location, so it can be reached from
	the command line when called. The manual page will also
	be installed.

	That's all!


Uninstalling ferm

	# make uninstall

	Ferm can now be quickly removed from the system by issuing
	a "make uninstall" command (as root, of course). This
	will not remove any configuration files of course!


Basic use of ferm

	ferm is designed to parse structured firewall files, 
	merely it's own language (quite C-like) to describe
	firewall-rules. Look at the examples for a good idea.
	To install a firewall, create an appropriate firewall
	file that suits your needs, store it into a good spot
	like /etc/firewall.conf and execute:

		/sbin/ferm /etc/firewall.conf

	ferm will read the file, translate it into your
	[ipchains|iptables|ipfwadm] rules, and install these
	into the kernel firewalling system! Read the manual and
	the examples to get the idea about the syntax of the
	firewall files.

	Generally, ferm will be called in 2 ways:

	- testing a firewall.conf file:

		/usr/sbin/ferm --lines --noexec /etc/firewall.conf

	This way, the actual firewall is not implemented, but the
	resulting rules are printed so you may check them. Add
	-d or -v for even more information.

	- implementing a ferm setup manually:

		/usr/sbin/ferm --lines --noexec /etc/firewall.conf

	This way, you may check any iptables generated errors and
	check again rules are implemented correctly. It is
	advisable to carefully check the output.

	When you are satisfied with the generated rules, feel free
	to insert ferm into an rc.d script or even an ip-up ppp
	script. Make sure you are satisfied with the setup because
	a wrong configuration may lead to terrible things. The
	line you need to insert will look like this:

		/usr/sbin/ferm /etc/firewall.conf

	Note that some system scripts remove any PATH settings and
	ferm might want to know the location of the iptables or ipchains
	binaries and might not find them, which results in more
	trouble or no firewall at all.


Getting a firewall working with ferm on your system

	First, get to know ferm, read the previous section and toy 
	around with some examples. Ferm is really simple, but still
	people e-mail me questions that are answered in the man-page.
	
	It is a requirement that you get some basic knowledge of
	networking before experimenting with ferm. I cannot stress
	that enough. There are many introductions available on
	the internet that explain the way the internet is constructed
	and what all those protocols are and how they work.

	Also you should be comfortable as root modifying your system
	setup and editing some textfiles. Ferm may require you to
	use text-editors and plain old point and click do not work 
	with ferm.

	Okay, you've not ran away crying or screaming, good, now do
	this:

	- make a ferm config file (or even more!)

	Read the examples and compile a firewall that suits your needs,
	add or remove items at will and test it thoroughly

	- test the ferm config file

	Make sure the firewall behaves as you want it to! Be carefull
	with this!!!

	- install it on the system

	Execute ferm manually or put it in an rc.d boot script, a ppp
	script or wherever you see fit. You might have more that one
	script (like the author).

	That's it! 

	
Package Contents
	
	* README	This file
	* AUTHORS	List of people who worked on the project
	* COPYING	Copy of the GPL
	* CHANGES	A list of changes in the development of ferm
	* ferm		The program
	* ferm.pod	The pod (perl doc format) file
	* ferm.1	The man page
        * ferm.txt      The man page as plain text
	* ferm.html	The man page as html file
	* examples/*	Some examples
	* Makefile	Installation Makefile


--
Auke Kok <auke.kok@planet.nl>
